---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Processes

The second item to tackle when adapting DevOps principles is to look at the
processes. In the last 10 - 20 years the agile movement pushed into a lot of
industries. This also plays a major role in the DevOps movement. Deploying new
things frequently and adapting to change, is what a lot of companies hope when
starting to implement DevOps. Yet, the one thing that always seems to be the
blocker is the operation side, which handles keeping the services and systems
alive. Here the [DORA (DevOps Research and
Assessment)](https://www.devops-research.com) Team came up with metrics, that
one can measure to ensure that you keep a healthy balance between new features
and stability.

## Automation and Standardization

One central piece when adapting DevOps is to put automation in place. It's
something that I like, and that also helps to speed up things a lot. Yet, one
thing that gets a lot of times forgotten is to first agree on a standard.
Computers and especially automation scripts are not as flexible as humans. And
it's very expensive to account for all the special cases when implementing
automation. So you first have to look and your existing software and
infrastructure and decide to go for one standard. This can range from
programming languages, and CI/CD tools, to cloud services. I know that
especially for technical enthusiasts that's a hard pill to swallow. But in my
opinion, this is a very important one. Don't keep all the snowflakes and special
cases and put in place automation for them. Instead, spend time putting a
standard in place and implementing the automation for this standard. This will
save you in the long run.
